Typos and clarification (#106)
LNP-BP/LNPBPs: lnpbp-0002.md

## Abstract

The standard defines an algorithm for deterministic embedding and verification of cryptographic commitments based
on elliptic-curve public and private key modifications (tweaks) inside the existing types of Bitcoin transaction outputs
and scripts.

## Background

Cryptographic commitments embedded into bitcoin transactions is a widely-used practice. It's application include
timestamping [1], single-use seals [2], pay-to-contract settlement schemes [3], sidechains [4], blockchain anchoring [5], Taproot, Graftroot proposals [6, 7, 8], Scriptless scripts [9] and many others.

## Motivation

A number of cryptographic commitment (CC) use cases require the commitment to be present within non-P2(W)PK(H) outputs,

> which may contain multiple public keys and need a clear definition of how the public key that contain the commitment
> can be found within the bitcoin script itself. For instance, embedding CC into Lightning Network (LN) payment channel 
> state updates in the current version requires the modification of an offered HTLC and received HTLC transaction outputs
> [10], and these transactions contain only a single P2WSH output. With the following updates [11] LN will likely change 
> a single P2WPKH (named `to_remote`) output within the commitment transaction, also leading to a requirement for a 
> standard and secure way of making CC inside P2(W)SH outputs.

Reviewer: LN has already accepted scripted version of `to_remote`, so this part may be updated in the following way:

```suggestion
which may contain multiple public keys and need a clear definition of how the public key that contain the commitment
can be found within the bitcoin script itself. For instance, embedding CC into Lightning Network (LN) payment channel 
state updates in the current version requires the modification of an offered HTLC and received HTLC transaction outputs
[10], and these transactions contain only a single P2WSH output. With the use of `option_anchor_outputs` [11] all outputs in the LN commitment transaction becomes P2WSH outputs, also leading to a requirement for a 
standard and secure way of making CC inside P2(W)SH outputs.
```

Author: I read what I could find about `option_anchor_outputs`, iiuc if this option is activated 2 anchor outputs will be added to every commitment transaction, each with a script that makes it spendable by one participant or anyone after some time elapsed, as to make CPFP possible and ease a little fee negotiation for those commitment transactions. Hence `anchor` outputs are P2WSH, and that's the rationale why we need a scheme to find the pubkey that contains the commitment in those scripts. 

Maybe a bit nitpicking here, but I didn't know about those outputs and I just want to make sure I understand what we're talking about.

### Commitment

The **committing party**, having a message `msg`:
1. Collects all public keys instances (named **original public keys**) related to the given transaction output under this standard,
   namely:

>    - a single public key for P2PK, P2PKH, P2WPK, P2WPK-in-P2SH type of outputs, `redeemScripts` or custom non-P2(W)SH

Reviewer: I think this has to be corrected:
```suggestion
   - a single public key for P2PK, P2PKH, P2WPK, P2WPK/WSH-in-P2SH type of outputs
```

     `scriptPubkey` requiring a single signature;
   - an arbitrary public key (even with an unknown corresponding private key), if `OP_RETURN` `scriptPubkey` is used;

>    - an internal public key for a Taproot output;

Reviewer: now we have an official name for the taproot output:
```suggestion
   - an internal public key for a Taproot output (P2TR);
```

>    - all signing public keys from a `redeemScript` or custom non-P2(W)SH `scriptPubkey`, defined according to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - all public keys from a `redeemScript` (for P2(W)SH and P2WSH-in-P2SH, which in case of SegWit is contained within `witnessScript`) or `scriptPubkey` (for custom bare script outputs), extracted according to the
```

Since algorithm below does not validates that the key satisfaction is required, we should probably remove this here as well

Author: By "key satisfaction", you mean that we don't verify that we have a valid signature for each public keys?

Author: By "key satisfaction", do you mean that we don't verify we have a valid signature for a public key ?

   - an internal public key for a Taproot output;
   - all signing public keys from a `redeemScript` or custom non-P2(W)SH `scriptPubkey`, defined according to the
     [algorithm](#deterministic-public-key-extraction-from-bitcoin-script).

> 2. Computes en elliptic curve point and its corresponding public key `S` as sum of elliptic curve points corresponding

Reviewer: I think we also need to add
```suggestion
    - In case of witness version > 1 the procedure must fail
```

Author: Agree, added the line.

### Commitment procedure

The **committing party**, having a message `msg`, must:
1. Collect all public keys instances (named **original public key set**) 
   related to the given transaction output, defined as:
   - a single public key for P2PK, P2PKH, P2WPK, P2WPK/WSH-in-P2SH type of outputs;

>    - an arbitrary public key (even with an unknown corresponding private key), 
>      if `OP_RETURN` `scriptPubkey` is used;

Reviewer: I think we need to clarify `OP_RETURN` handing options here:
```suggestion
   - If `OP_RETURN` `scriptPubkey` is used, it must contain a single public key serialized in BIP-340 xcoordonly form right after `OP_RETURN` opcode; for all other forms of `OP_RETURN` data algorithm must fail;
```

And add to the rationale:
```text
Use of `OP_RETURN`-based commitments is not advised, but if it can't be avoided (for instance because of HSM use) it requires the public key containing commitment to be serialized in BIP-340 format such that the data will look like any other 256-bit hash, common for `OP_RETURN` outputs, increasing anonymity set and preventing advanced chain analysis.
```

   - an internal public key for a Taproot output (P2TR);

>    - all public keys from a `redeemScript` (for P2(W)SH and P2WSH-in-P2SH, 

Reviewer: Since a public key may appear in a script multiple times I think its important to state that the set must contain a single copy of each key only, i.e. the keys should be unique. It was stated before in the pt.1, but I think this can be moved to this subpoint, which is the only variant where multiple public keys appear

Author: I don't know, after reading this part and the `Deterministic public key extraction from Bitcoin Script` it refers to, I feel that it's already pretty clear in the 3rd step of public key extraction: 
```
Select unique public keys (i.e. if some public key is repeated in different parts of the script/in different script branches, pick a single instance of it).
```
If we want to mention that here too, I guess that adding `unique` to l.121 would be enough, making it `all unique public key`.

Reviewer: Ok. Overall I think more clarification is better, but I think we do not need to spend more time on this. Merging now

## Compatibility

The proposed cryptographic commitment scheme is fully compatible with any LNPBP1-based commitments for any specified transaction output type.

The standard is not compliant with previously used OP_RETURN-based cryptographic commitments, like OpenTimestamps [1],
since it utilises plain value of the public key with the commitment for the OP_RETURN push data.

The author is not aware of any P2(W)SH or non-OP_RETURN P2S cryptographic commitment schemes existing before this
proposal, and if any exists, it is highly probable that the standard is not compatible with it.

> The proposed standard is compliant with current Taproot proposal [14], since it requires exposure of the complete

Reviewer: I think we should remove everything after the dot here
```suggestion
The proposed standard is compliant with current Taproot proposal [14].
```
